Unsupervised Domain Adaptation
=============

The goal of this assignment is to incorporate domain adapation in statistical parsing. The two datasets used are PennTreebank WSJ and Brown corpus. A statistical parser (unlexicalized PCFG) trained on a source domain (e.g. WSJ) is adapted for a target domain (e.g. Brown) using semi-supervised (hard) EM-like (single step) approach. The Stanford's Parser package is used. A less convoluted description of the problem setting, and the experiments, along with their results can be found in ``assignment-3.pdf``. The actual problem statement can be found [here](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~mooney/cs388/hw3.html).

### Dependecies
Requires Stanford Parser version 3.6.0 or higher. Download from [here](http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/lex-parser.shtml#Download)

### Description of files
``stanford-package folder``: Contains ``stanford-parser.jar`` and ``slf4-api.jar`` from the Stanford Parser package.

``src/Interface.java``: An interface to the ``LexicalizedParser`` class in the stanford-parser to perform unsupervised domain adaptation.

``scripts folder``: This directory contains scripts needed to run various experiments. The desciption of each experiment is given in ``assignment-3.pdf``. It also contains ``plot.py`` to generate the plots from the traces generated by each experiment.

``class folder``: The directory where the ``.class`` files are saved after building.

``logs folder``: This directory should be created in the project directory with an appropriate sub-directory structure to save the traces generated during the experiments. Consult the ``expt-*.sh`` scripts to get an idea of the exact directory structure needed for each experiment.

``reports folder``: Contains the report for this assignment.

### How to compile?
``cd`` to the scripts directory and run ``./compile.sh``

### How to run experiments?
Script for running each experiment is supplied in the ``scripts`` directory. To run, say, experiment 1a, cd to ``scripts`` folder (not doing this causes path issues in bash) and run ``expt-1a.sh``. Additionally, each experiment can be run as a *condor* job (UT specific) using the corresponding condor script.

### Description of experiments
``expt-1a``: wsj seed, brown self-training, brown test; seed size varied.

``expt-1b``: wsj seed, no self-training, brown test; seed size varied.

``expt-1c``: wsj seed, no self-training, wsj test; seed size varied.

``expt-2a``: wsj seed, brown self-training, brown test; self-training size varied.

``expt-3a``: brown seed, wsj self-training, wsj test; seed size varied.

``expt-3b``: brown seed, no self-training, wsj test; seed size varied.

``expt-3c``: brown seed, no self-training, brown test; seed size varied.

``expt-4a``: brown seed, wsj self-train, wsj test; self-training size varied.
